# Book Recommender System Kaggle Competition
Recommender systems seek to predict a rating or preference a user will give certain items, such as a movies, books, songs, and products in general. Content-based filtering and collaborative filtering are two examples of recommender system algorithms that seek to provide users with meaningful recommendations based on their predicted ratings for unknown items. The objective of this Kaggle competition assignment is to develop a recommender system for a medium-sized dataset that will accurately predict the rating that a user will give to a book given past their past ratings, and ultimately provide recommendations of books to a user based on their predicted ratings. The accuracy of the predicted ratings is determined by the root mean squared error (RMSE) to determine how close or far off a predicted rating is from the actual rating.

## Kaggle Rank & RMSE
Currently, my rank on the Kaggle competition public leaderboard is **1st** with a RMSE of **1.50613** on 30% of the test set. The final leaderboard will be based on the other 70% of the test set.

## Exploratory Data Analysis
The training set contains 700,000 instances with three columns (user ID, book ID, and rating). The test set contains 300,000 instances with two columns (user ID, book ID). Additional book metadata is provided with information about each books’ author, average rating, description, number of pages, etc. A majority of the exploratory data analysis is done on the training set with some analysis done on the additional book metadata. For the training set, there are 35,280 unique users and 68,371 unique books. The ratings lie within the range of 0 to 5 inclusive with a majority of the ratings being 0, 4 or 5 and the minority of the ratings being 1 or 2. The minimum number of ratings per user and the minimum number of ratings per book were both 1. Also, there were 25,851 books out of the 68,371 books that were only rated by 1 user. The majority of the number of ratings per book was very low and was in the 1 to 5 range. The majority of the number of ratings per user was also very low and was in the 1 to 16 range. An important observation of the training set was that there was duplicated data for some of the user and book pairs. For more details, see the [goodreads_eda.ipynb](https://github.com/k-chuang/goodreads-recommender-system/blob/master/goodreads_eda.ipynb) notebook.
